470 BISHOP GASTRELL

is no such proposition as this, that one and the same God
¹23 three different Persons, formally, and in terms, to be
found in the sacred writings either of the Old or New Tes-
tament: neither is it pretended that there is any word of
the same signification or importance with the word Trinity,
used in scripture, with relation to God. There is one text
indeed which plainly enough affirms, without the help of
inference or deduction, that God εἱς Three and One,· but
this being a disputed passage, and no where else repeated
in the same or the like terms, I shall not insist upon it.
Nor do I think such a Trinity as we profess to believe
stands much in need of the support of this text3 the matter
and subject of our saith in this point being frequently,
largely, and circumstantially mentioned; and, as it appears
to me,.interwoven into the very design of the scriptures.

Now the sum of all that the scriptures plainly and ex-
pressly teach concerning a Trinity is this: that there is
but One only God, the author and maker of all things; but
⁷ that One God ought to be acknowledged and adored by us,
under those Three different titles or characters of Father,
Son, and Holyj Glaost. Which terms, whatever they sig-
nify, according to my judgment, upon a fair and impartial
consideration of all circumstances that can determine their
sense, are evidently applied to God in many places of holy
writ; and consequently are truly and properly applicable
to him.

2. The proof of which assertion is the second thing Ι un-
dertook.

But here 1 find myself forestalled by the successful en-
deavours of a great many learned men, who have carefully
and nicely examined every text that can be brought, either
for the establishment or confutation of the doctrine of the
Trinity. I shall not therefore trouble my reader with a
particular detail of all their arguments3 but only acquaint
him truly and fairly what were the chief motives which
influenced and disposed me to make such a judgment as I
have, just· before, declared.

Now the reasons which determined my opinion in this
matter, were such as freely offered themselves upon an un-

