ΟΝ ΤΗΕ ΤΒΙΝῙΤῩ. 455-

First then, we can believe a thing no further than we un-
derstand the terms in which it is proposed to us: for saith
concerns only the truth and falsehood of propositions; and
the terms, of which a proposition consists‚ must be first
understood before we can pronounce any thing concerning
the truth or falsehood of it; which is nothing else but the
agreement or disagreement of its terms‚ or the ideas ex-
pressed by them. If Ι have no knowledge at all of the
meaning of the terms used in a proposition, I cannot exer-
cise any act of my understanding about it, I cannot say I
believe or disbelieve any thing; my soul is perfectly in the
same state as it was before, without receiving any new de-
termination: and if Ι have but a general confused notion of
the terms, I can give only a general confused assent to the
proposition. So my faith will always bear an 'equal propor-
tion to my knowledge of the subject-matter to be believed.

To make this plainer by an instance; suppose Ι am re-
quired to believe that A is equal to B: if Ι do not know
either what A or B stands for, or have no notion of equal-
ity‚ I believe nothing more than Ι did before this was pro-
posed to me; I am not capable of any new determinate act
of saith. All that I can believe in this case can amount to
no more than this, that something hath some respect to
something else3 that the matter Ι am required to believe is
affirmed by a person of great knowledge and integrity‚ who
ought to be credited in what he says3 and therefore the
proposition here laid down is probably true in that sense
the author means. And what am Ι the wiser for all this?
What addition is there made to my faith or knowledge by
such a proposition? But farther3 suppose I know that A
and B stand for two lines, and that by equal lines is meant
lines of the same length ς such knowledge can produce only
a general confused belief, that there is some certain line
imaginable just of the same length with some other line:
but if by A and B are meant two right lines, which are the
sides of a given triangle, and Ι take the mathematician's
word for it, without demenstratiom that they are equal or
of the same length, this is a particular distinct act of faith;

G g 4

